Welcome, guys and girls, to this lecture.
In this lecture, we are going to learn about infrastructure as code.
So let's start from the beginning.
In not so olden days, everyone was running in data center and you are probably thinking, I want to
fly in the cloud.
And then thankfully cloud got invented and people like you and me started learning it.
And this is how things went in the beginning.
And almighty developer logs into the management console in one of their account and start spinning up
a w.
S infrastructure like AC two ideas lambda.
And that was pretty powerful and the developer was feeling good until the boss said, Hey, that was
just one account.
Can you spin up the same infrastructure in the rest of the 99 accounts?
So that is pretty painful to log into the console for all the accounts for the enterprise and spin up
all the stuff manually.
And also it is very easy to mess something up in the console.
If you forget to click something, forget to select the right option from the top down.
Your infrastructure could be messed up.
So at this point, the developer was probably saying, I just want to code cool stuff.
So say hello to infrastructure as code.
So instead of the developer going to the management console and spinning all this infrastructure manually,
he or she writes some code to provision the infrastructure.
So this code will look something like, hey, spin one easy to with this configuration, spin one Amazon
ideas with this kind of parameters and this kind of configuration and spin it up to Lambda with this
much memory, this much time out.
And this is the code.
So that's how infrastructure is.
Code was born.
So it is a process of provisioning and managing infrastructure using code.
It is human readable and machine consumable.
Since this is machine consumable.
What that means is you can rerun the same code in multiple accounts and spin up the same infrastructure
without you going into the console of all these accounts and spinning things up manually in a w.
S, there are two services which lets you codify your infrastructure.
One is cloud formation and the newest one is a w CDK or a W s cloud development kit.
We are going to learn about both of these in this course.
So what are some of the benefits of infrastructure code?
First is visibility as infrastructure as code serves as a very clear reference of what resources are
on your account and what their settings are.
You don't have to navigate to the console to check the parameters and all the different settings.
It makes it very easy to track and manage infrastructure.
Next is stability.
If you accidentally change the wrong setting or delete the wrong resource using the console, you can
break things.
But infrastructure is code is a piece of code, so you can fashion control it.
Using Git, you can have proper branching strategy, you can review it and then standardize the template.
It helps prevent those kind of accidental mess ups.
One of the most important benefit of infrastructure code is scalability.
With infrastructure as code, you can write it once and reuse it many times.
This means that one well written template can be used as the basis for multiple services in multiple
regions, making it much easier to horizontally scale.
Next benefit is security, since infrastructure as code gives you a unified template for how to deploy
your architecture.
If you create one well secured architecture, you can reuse it multiple times and you know that each
deployed function is following the same settings.
Also, infrastructure as code is transactional.
What that means is it not only creates resources on your account, but also works for them to stabilize
while they start.
It verifies that provisioning was successful and if there is a failure, it can gracefully roll the
infrastructure back to a past non good state.
Basically based on the results of the previous transactions.
You can tell it what to do next.
Now that we understand what is infrastructure as code and some of its benefits, let's take a look at
a cloud formation.
In our next lecture.
All right, guys and girls join me in the next lecture.